# BlockFund - A Decentralized CrowdFunding Platform
What is crowdfunding Crowdfunding is the use of small amounts of capital from a large number of individuals to finance a new business venture. Crowdfunding makes use of the easy accessibility of vast networks of people through social media and crowdfunding websites to bring investors and entrepreneurs together, and has the potential to increase entrepreneurship by expanding the pool of investors from whom funds can be raised beyond the traditional circle of owners, relatives and venture capitalists.

Objective The Main objective of the project is to create a decentraliszed platform through which people can publish their ideas and investors can review and fund them. This model aims to remove all the inherent problems in the traditional crowdfunding applications.

Current problems in crowdfunding

Trust: When you are a brand with no prior record, you have to consider how you can generate enough brand credibility with investors. Without trust you might not generate enough interest in your campaign and fail to meet your targets.

Accounting, recordkeeping and managing compliance: There is a huge amount of uncertainly when it comes to the accounting rules for funds raised through crowdfunding.Should they be declared as an income or as capital? The answer will tend to be different depending on which expert you ask. For e.g. Also, states in the US will have their own rules on how this money should be taxed.

3.Security gaps in present payment infrastructure: Some inherent payment bottleneck with present payment platforms like wePay, amazonPay, PayPal have caused the investors wary of investing in through crowdfunding platforms.

How do we aim to solve these problem 1. Blockchain technology provides the underpinnings of popular cryptocurrencies like Bitcoin and Ether (the currency on the Ethereum network). The blockchain also provides a robust, decentralized way for information to be stored in immutable blocks — great for crowdfunding.

The ledger in a blockchain system would allow for accurate record keeping of all campaign activity: before the campaign starts, during the donation period, and after the campaign is funded. This level of visibility into a project helps all parties involved, including the creators, backers, and platform administrators. By having an immutable receipt, you can have proof of your contribution and the reward that is due to you. This is something that cannot be guaranteed by the current system.

The ledger in a blockchain system would allow for accurate record keeping of all campaign activity: before the campaign starts, during the donation period, and after the campaign is funded. This level of visibility into a project helps all parties involved, including the creators, backers, and platform administrators. By having an immutable receipt, you can have proof of your contribution and the reward that is due to you. This is something that cannot be guaranteed by the current system.

Implementation details we will be building a decentraliszed application using truffle-framework,Metamask,ganache, solidity programming language for smart contracts.

The main highlights of what we will be implementing is as follows: 1. The contracts are written in Solidity and the app is utilizing the Truffle framework. 2. Following is the list of smart contracts that we will be implementing: Funding_hub.sol: -This contract is responsible for creating and maintaining a list of all Project contracts. It also offers a contribute method which can be used to contribute directly to a Project. To demonstrate a potential business model use-case Projects have been locked to only allow receiving of funds from their managing Funding Hub. You can imagine a scenario in which the Funding_hub takes a small fee for managing each project. Project.sol: - This contract contains all of the logic around how a crowdfunding project should operate. Projects are "locked" to their Funding Hub and can only receive funds sent through the associated FundingHub contract address. There are three main functions: (fund, payout, and refund) Fund This is the function called when the FundingHub receives a contribution. If the contribution was sent after the deadline of the project passed, or the full amount has been reached, the function must return the value to the originator of the transaction. If the full funding amount has been reached, the function must call payout. we want to enforce the withdrawal pattern in the refund method as opposed to a group send. The withdrawal pattern is generally considered safer and avoids some of the pitfalls of call depth and out-of-gas issues. Payout If funding goal has been met, transfer fund to project creator. This function protects against reentrancy and is only payable to the project creator. *Refund If the deadline is passed and the goal was not reached, allow contributors to withdraw their contributions.

Frontend(GUI) • The frontend app for this project is built on React and forks off of the [truffle-webpack-demo project] by Consensys. • The cool thing about this is that it combines the latest in regular frontend JavaScript development with Ethereum. In order to manage the state of the dapp, Redux was chosen. • One of my goals of this project was to see if there was a way I could abstract the asynchronous web3 and contract calls into a simple API that I could then integrate into a standard React+Redux Action/Reducer flow. This was achieved with the web3Api.js file. • This approach works well with the asynchronous nature of interacting with the blockchain as things like contract properties, and account balances can seemlessly notify the app when they have updated and UI will reflect those changes instantly
